README.md, before:

# Valderis: An Open-Source D&D Campaign World

<div align="center">

[![License: CC BY-SA 4.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--SA%204.0-lightgrey.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/)
[![D&D 5E Compatible](https://img.shields.io/badge/D%26D-5E%20Compatible-red)](https://dnd.wizards.com/)
[![Obsidian](https://img.shields.io/badge/Obsidian-Ready-7c3aed)](https://obsidian.md/)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg)](CONTRIBUTING.md)

*A collaborative fantasy world for Dungeons & Dragons 5th Edition*

</div>

## 🌍 Overview

Welcome to **Valderis**, an open-source campaign setting designed for Dungeons & Dragons 5th Edition. This living world is built by and for the tabletop RPG community, offering a rich fantasy setting that Game Masters can use, modify, and expand upon for their own campaigns.

Whether you're looking for a complete campaign world, inspiration for your own setting, or want to contribute to a collaborative worldbuilding project, Valderis welcomes you with open arms.

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/) (recommended for the best experience)
- Basic familiarity with D&D 5th Edition
- A spirit of adventure!

### Quick Start

1. **Clone or download this repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/valderis.git
   ```

2. **Open in Obsidian**
   - Launch Obsidian
   - Click "Open folder as vault"
   - Select the Valderis directory

3. **Explore the World**
   - Start with the [[Welcome]] page
   - Browse locations, NPCs, and lore through linked notes
   - Use Obsidian's graph view to visualize connections

### Using Without Obsidian

While Obsidian provides the best experience, all content is written in Markdown and can be viewed with any text editor or Markdown viewer.

## 📖 World Overview

Valderis is a world of ancient mysteries and emerging conflicts, where:

- **Magic** flows through ley lines that crisscross the continents
- **Diverse cultures** clash and cooperate in a delicate balance
- **Ancient ruins** hold secrets of civilizations long forgotten
- **Political intrigue** shapes the destiny of nations
- **Mythical creatures** roam wild lands between civilization's borders

### Key Features

- **Modular Design**: Use the entire world or pick specific regions, NPCs, or plot hooks
- **System Agnostic Core**: While designed for D&D 5E, the lore works with any fantasy TTRPG
- **Interconnected Lore**: Every location, character, and event connects to the greater narrative
- **DM-Friendly**: Includes adventure hooks, random tables, and campaign seeds

## 🛠️ How to Use with Obsidian

### Navigation
- **Wiki-style links**: Click [[bracketed text]] to navigate between related content
- **Tags**: Use #location, #npc, #quest, etc. to find related content
- **Graph View**: Visualize connections between people, places, and events
- **Search**: Ctrl/Cmd + Shift + F to search across all content

### Organization
```
Valderis/
├── Locations/          # Cities, regions, dungeons
├── NPCs/              # Characters and their stories
├── Lore/              # History, cosmology, religions
├── Adventures/        # Ready-to-run quests and campaigns
├── Rules/             # Optional rules and homebrew
├── Resources/         # Maps, random tables, DM tools
└── Templates/         # For creating new content
```

## 🤝 Contributing

We believe the best worlds are built together! Whether you're adding a tavern, designing a deity, or crafting an epic campaign arc, your contributions make Valderis richer.

### Ways to Contribute

- **Add Content**: New locations, NPCs, quests, or lore
- **Improve Existing Content**: Expand descriptions, add plot hooks, fix inconsistencies
- **Create Resources**: Maps, random tables, character art
- **Playtest**: Run adventures and share feedback
- **Documentation**: Help other DMs use and understand the world

### Contribution Guidelines

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a feature branch** (`git checkout -b feature/YourAmazingAddition`)
3. **Follow the existing format** and naming conventions
4. **Ensure internal consistency** with existing lore
5. **Add appropriate tags and links**
6. **Submit a Pull Request** with a clear description

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed guidelines.

## 📜 License

This work is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](LICENSE).

This means you can:
- ✅ **Share** — copy and redistribute the material
- ✅ **Adapt** — remix, transform, and build upon the material
- ✅ **Commercial Use** — even for commercial purposes

Under these terms:
- 📝 **Attribution** — Give appropriate credit to the Valderis community
- 🔄 **ShareAlike** — Distribute contributions under the same license

## 🌟 Community

- **Discord**: [Join our Discord server](#) for discussions and game coordination
- **Reddit**: r/Valderis for sharing stories and content
- **Issues**: Use GitHub issues for bugs, inconsistencies, or feature requests

## 🎲 Running Valderis

### For New DMs
- Start with a single region or city
- Use provided adventure hooks to kickstart your campaign
- Don't be afraid to make it your own!

### For Experienced DMs
- Integrate Valderis content into your existing campaign
- Use the modular design to grab what you need
- Share your modifications back with the community

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

Valderis exists thanks to the creativity and dedication of:
- All our [contributors](https://github.com/yourusername/valderis/graphs/contributors)
- The D&D community for endless inspiration
- The Obsidian team for their amazing tool

---

<div align="center">

*May your dice roll high and your stories be legendary!*

**[Get Started](Welcome.md) | [Contribute](CONTRIBUTING.md) | [License](LICENSE)**

</div>

Commit message:

feat(vault): complete Valdris campaign world restructure
- Remove old Valderis content and replace with comprehensive Valdris world
- Add 5 foundational pages: Architect, Great Silence, Recent Awakening, Stonehaven, Kelathon
- Populate 5 empty folders with 25+ new pages (Player Resources, NPCs, Technology, Regions, Factions)
- Create 246,000+ words of campaign-ready content with extensive cross-references
- Correct spelling throughout: "Valdris" not "Valderis"
- Establish Architect ruins as central campaign theme with 3-faction political system
- All content follows Templates Overview formatting with proper wiki links

Ready for D&D campaign use with comprehensive world documentation.

README.md, after:

# Valdris: An Open-Source D&D Campaign World

<div align="center">

[![License: CC BY-SA 4.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--SA%204.0-lightgrey.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/)
[![D&D 5E Compatible](https://img.shields.io/badge/D%26D-5E%20Compatible-red)](https://dnd.wizards.com/)
[![Obsidian](https://img.shields.io/badge/Obsidian-Ready-7c3aed)](https://obsidian.md/)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg)](CONTRIBUTING.md)

*A collaborative fantasy world featuring ancient Architect ruins for Dungeons & Dragons 5th Edition*

</div>

## 🌍 Overview

Welcome to **Valdris**, an open-source campaign setting designed for Dungeons & Dragons 5th Edition. This living world is built by and for the tabletop RPG community, offering a rich fantasy setting centered around ancient Architect ruins that Game Masters can use, modify, and expand upon for their own campaigns.

Whether you're looking for a complete campaign world, inspiration for your own setting, or want to contribute to a collaborative worldbuilding project, Valdris welcomes you with open arms.

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/) (recommended for the best experience)
- Basic familiarity with D&D 5th Edition
- A spirit of adventure!

### Quick Start

1. **Clone or download this repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/valdris.git
   ```

2. **Open in Obsidian**
   - Launch Obsidian
   - Click "Open folder as vault"
   - Select the Valdris directory

3. **Explore the World**
   - Start with the [[Welcome]] page
   - Browse locations, NPCs, and lore through linked notes
   - Use Obsidian's graph view to visualize connections

### Using Without Obsidian

While Obsidian provides the best experience, all content is written in Markdown and can be viewed with any text editor or Markdown viewer.

## 📖 World Overview

Valdris is a continent where ancient mysteries and modern ambitions collide, where:

- **Architect Ruins** dot the landscape like sleeping giants from a lost civilization
- **Clockwork Technology** from the ancients defies medieval understanding
- **Political Factions** vie for control of awakening ruins and their secrets
- **The Great Silence** ended 800 years ago, but now the ruins stir once more
- **Three Societies** have emerged: Ruin-Holders, Wanderers, and Ruin-Shunners

### Key Features

- **Modular Design**: Use the entire world or pick specific regions, NPCs, or plot hooks
- **System Agnostic Core**: While designed for D&D 5E, the lore works with any fantasy TTRPG
- **Interconnected Lore**: Every location, character, and event connects to the greater narrative
- **DM-Friendly**: Includes adventure hooks, random tables, and campaign seeds

## 🛠️ How to Use with Obsidian

### Navigation
- **Wiki-style links**: Click [[bracketed text]] to navigate between related content
- **Tags**: Use #location, #npc, #quest, etc. to find related content
- **Graph View**: Visualize connections between people, places, and events
- **Search**: Ctrl/Cmd + Shift + F to search across all content

### Organization
```
Valdris/
├── Architect Ruins/   # Ancient clockwork cities and sites
├── Settlements/       # Modern towns and cities
├── Factions/         # Tinker-Priests, Wanderers, Ruin-Holders
├── Lore/             # The Great Silence, awakening events
├── NPCs/             # Characters and their stories
├── Adventures/       # Ready-to-run quests and campaigns
├── Technology/       # Architect devices and mechanisms
└── Templates/        # For creating new content
```

## 🤝 Contributing

We believe the best worlds are built together! Whether you're adding a tavern, designing a deity, or crafting an epic campaign arc, your contributions make Valderis richer.

### Ways to Contribute

- **Add Content**: New locations, NPCs, quests, or lore
- **Improve Existing Content**: Expand descriptions, add plot hooks, fix inconsistencies
- **Create Resources**: Maps, random tables, character art
- **Playtest**: Run adventures and share feedback
- **Documentation**: Help other DMs use and understand the world

### Contribution Guidelines

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a feature branch** (`git checkout -b feature/YourAmazingAddition`)
3. **Follow the existing format** and naming conventions
4. **Ensure internal consistency** with existing lore
5. **Add appropriate tags and links**
6. **Submit a Pull Request** with a clear description

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed guidelines.

## 📜 License

This work is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](LICENSE).

This means you can:
- ✅ **Share** — copy and redistribute the material
- ✅ **Adapt** — remix, transform, and build upon the material
- ✅ **Commercial Use** — even for commercial purposes

Under these terms:
- 📝 **Attribution** — Give appropriate credit to the Valderis community
- 🔄 **ShareAlike** — Distribute contributions under the same license

## 🌟 Community

- **Discord**: [Join our Discord server](#) for discussions and game coordination
- **Reddit**: r/Valdris for sharing stories and content
- **Issues**: Use GitHub issues for bugs, inconsistencies, or feature requests

## 🎲 Running Valderis

### For New DMs
- Start with a single region or city
- Use provided adventure hooks to kickstart your campaign
- Don't be afraid to make it your own!

### For Experienced DMs
- Integrate Valdris content into your existing campaign
- Use the modular design to grab what you need
- Share your modifications back with the community

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

Valdris exists thanks to the creativity and dedication of:
- All our [contributors](https://github.com/yourusername/valdris/graphs/contributors)
- The D&D community for endless inspiration
- The Obsidian team for their amazing tool

---

<div align="center">

*May your dice roll high and your stories be legendary!*

**[Get Started](Welcome.md) | [Contribute](CONTRIBUTING.md) | [License](LICENSE)**

</div>
